---
title: "Launch MEASO summary for Policy Makers"
preTitle: July 29, 2023
description: "Marine Ecosystem Assessment of the Southern Ocean, SPM launch"
date: 2023-10-18
categories: ["news"]
background: assets/images/posts/measo_spm_final_cover_header.png
imageLicense: |
  Image by Stacey McCormack licensed under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
---


# MEASO

MEASO (Marine Ecosystem Assessment for the Southern Ocean) was established in 2018. It is an international initiative witg contributions from more than 200 scientists from 19 countries, with diverse representation. The goal of MEASO is  to fully assess the condition and changes of Southern Ocean ecosystems, as well as the underlying processes driving these changes. A total of 24 research articles were published in the journal 'Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution' as part of a special  research topic.

MEASO is a component of the Integrating Climate and Ecosystem Dynamics in the Southern Ocean (ICED) programme, which is part of the Integrated Marine Biosphere Research (IMBeR) programme, which is run jointly by the Scientific Committee on Oceanic Research (SCOR) and Future Earth. It is also backed by the Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research (SCAR) and the Southern Ocean Observing System (SOOS). 

MEASO Policymakers' Summary 2023
The five-year MEASO process was created in the style of an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) working group. MEASO functions as the Southern Ocean counterpart of an IPCC report, providing a simple and succinct overview of scientific results in order to educate world policymakers. The publication of the 2023 report coincided with the international CCAMLR meeting in Hobart.
